>> Ifill: THE CONGRESSIONAL
BUDGET OFFICE SAYS AS MANY AS
TWO MILLION WORKERS COULD LEAVE
THE WORKFORCE AS A RESULT OF THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
BUT IS THAT GOOD OR BAD FOR THE
ECONOMY?
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUD> Ifill,
THE FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION
TRIES SCARE TACTICS TO
DISCOURAGE TEENAGERS FROM
SMOKING.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, A PROGRAM
THAT SEEKS TO IMPROVE ACADEMIC
PERFORMANCE, BY BRINGING BACK
RECESS.
>> PLAY IS A CHILD'S WORK,
THAT'S THEIR WORK WORLD.
I'VE ALWAYS TOLD ADULTS I CAN'T
SIT FOR SEVEN HOURS A DAY.
WHY WOULD WE EXPECT A FIVYEARE
OLD TO BE ABLE TO?
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
STATION FROM VIEWERS LIKE YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: A NEW REPORT ON
ECONOMIC EFFECTS OF THE
PRESIDENT'S HEALTH CARE LAW
STRUCK SPARKS TODAY.
THE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE
PROJECTED AS MANY AS 2.3 MILLION
WORKERS WILL REDUCE THEIR HOURS
INSURANCE.T OF THE WORK FORCE BY
JASON FURMAN CHAIRS THE
PRESIDENT'S COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC
ADVISERS.
>> EVEN IF THE NET RESULT OF
THIS IS A NET REDUCTION IN LABOR
SUPPLY, TO THE DEGREE IT'S
BECAUSE OF PEOPLE'S CHOICES,
WE'LL THINK ABOUT IT DIFFERENTLY
THAN IF BUSINESSES ARE CUTTING
JOBS.
THIS IS NOT BUSINESSES CUTTING
BACK ON JOBS, THIS IS PEOPLE
HAVING NEW CHOICES THEY DIDN'T
USE TO HAVE.
>> Woodruff: FURMAN ALSO ARGUED
THE REPORT DOES NOT TAKE INTO
ACCOUNT A NUMBER OF ECONOMIC
BENEFITS OF THE LAW.
BUT REPUBLICANS, INCLUDING
SENATE MINORITY LEADER MITCH
MCCONNELL, SAID IN FACT, THE NEW
ESTIMATE PROVES THE LAW IS
INDEED A JOB KILLER.
>> THE CBO REPORT IS CERTAINLY
NOT PRETTY IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
IN CREATING JOBS IN AMERICA.
AS WE ALL KNOW, THEY ESTIMATE UP
TO TWO MILLION FEWER JOBS WILL
BE CREATED AS A RESULT OF
OBAMACARE.
HONESTLY, IT'S NOT A SURPRISING
REPORT.
ALL THE ANECDOTES YOU HEAR ALL
ACROSS THE COUNTRY ARE THAT
PREMIUMS ARE GOING UP AND JOBS
ARE BEING LOST.
>> Woodruff: THE REPORT ALSO
LOWERS THE ESTIMATE OF HOW MANY
UNINSURED PEOPLE WILL GAIN
COVERAGE THIS YEAR BY 2 MILLION.
IT BLAMES THE EARLY TROUBLES OF
THE GOVERNMENT'S WEBSITE,
HEALTHCARE DOT GOV.
WE'LL EXPLORE ALL OF THE NUMBERS
FURTHER, RIGHT AFTER THE NEWS
SUMMARY.
SEPARATELY, THE C.B.O NOW SAYS
THIS YEAR'S FEDERAL BUDGET
DEFICIT WILL DROP TO $514
BILLION.
THAT'S DOWN SHARPLY FROM LAST
YEAR, AND IS THE LOWEST SINCE
PRESIDENT OBAMA TOOK OFFICE.
THE AGENCY ATTRIBUTES THE
DECLINE TO RISING TAX REVENUES
FROM THE ECONOMIC RECOVERY, PLUS
REDUCTIONS IN FEDERAL SPENDING.
>> Woodruff: WALL STREET HAD
SOME IMPROVED NUMBERS OF ITS OWN
TODAY, AFTER MONDAY'S BIG
LOSSES.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 72 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,445.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 34 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,031.
>> Woodruff: A NEW, FIVE-YEAR
FARM BILL HAS WON FINAL APPROVAL
IN THE SENATE, AFTER MORE THAN
TWO YEARS OF WRANGLING.
THE ULTIMATE COMPROMISE WILL
COST $956 BILLION.
IT KEEPS MOST CROP SUBSIDIES
INTACT, BUT CUTS $800 MILLION
DOLLARS A YEAR FROM FOOD STAMPS,
ABOUT 1%.
MANY REPUBLICANS HAD WANTED
DEEPER CUTS IN BOTH AREAS.
OFFICIALS AND ACTIVISTS FROM
WEST VIRGINIA ARE STEPPING UP
THE PRESSURE FOR MORE
INFORMATION ON LAST MONTH'S
CHEMICAL SPILL.
THEY TOOK THEIR FRUSTRATION
TODAY TO A SENATE HEARING  ON
THE SPILL THAT TAINTED THE WATER
SUPPLY OF 300,000 PEOPLE.
WEST VIRGINIA'S SECRETARY OF
STATE, NATALIE TENNANT, SAID
PEOPLE DON'T KNOW WHAT TO
BELIEVE.
>> FIRST WE HEAR IT'S 7,500
GALLONS THEN WE HEAR IT'S 10,000
GALLONS.
ONE DAY WE'RE TOLD THE WATER IS
SAFE, THE NEXT DAY WE HEAR THAT
PREGNANT WOMEN SHOULD NOT DRINK
IT.
IT DOESN'T ADD UP.
EITHER IT'S SAFE OR IT'S NOT
SAFE.
QUITE FRANKLY PEOPLE ARE FED UP
THEY ARE ANGRY AND THEY ARE
SCARED.
I HAVE FAMILIES TELLING ME THEY
ARE MELTING SNOW JUST TO BE ABLE
TO GIVE THEIR CHILDREN BATHS.
>> Woodruff: DEMOCRATIC AND
REPUBLICAN SENATORS ALIKE ARE
BACKING A BILL TO REQUIRE
INSPECTIONS EVERY THREE YEARS AT
CHEMICAL PLANTS THAT CAN
THREATEN PUBLIC WATER SYSTEMS.
A FEDERAL JUDGE IN VIRGINIA
HEARD ARGUMENTS TODAY ON WHETHER
TO OVERTURN THE STATE'S BAN ON
GAY MARRIAGE.
VOTERS APPROVED IT, IN 2006, AS
AN AMENDMENT TO THE STATE
CONSTITUTION.
BUT TWO SAME-SEX COUPLES BROUGHT
SUIT, SAYING THE BAN VIOLATES
THEIR RIGHTS UNDER THE
U.S. CONSTITUTION.
VIRGINIA'S DEMOCRATIC ATTORNEY
GENERAL MARK HERRING ANNOUNCED
LAST MONTH HE WOULD NOT DEFEND
THE BAN.
IN AFGHANISTAN, THE OFFICE OF
PRESIDENT HAMID KARZAI CONFIRMS
HE HAS HELD SECRET TALKS WITH
TALIBAN OFFICIALS IN A BID TO
MAKE PEACE.
THAT DISCLOSURE COMES AS
RELATIONS BETWEEN KARZAI AND THE
U.S. HAVE BEEN STRAINED SINCE HE
REFUSED TO SIGN A SECURITY
AGREEMENT.
WE'LL DELVE INTO WHAT KARZAI IS
DOING, AND WHY, LATER IN THE
PROGRAM.
MICROSOFT HAS REACHED WITHIN ITS
RANKS FOR A NEW C.E.O.
SATYA NADELLA HAS BEEN IN CHARGE
OF THE SOFTWARE GIANT'S CLOUD
COMPUTING BUSINESS.
WITH TODAY'S ANNOUNCEMENT, HE
REPLACES STEVE BALLMER WHO
ANNOUNCED LAST AUGUST THAT HE'D
BE LEAVING THE COMPANY.
IN ADDITION, MICROSOFT FOUNDER
BILL GATES IS STEPPING DOWN AS
CHAIRMAN, BUT HE'LL SERVE AS A
TECHNOLOGY ADVISER.
STILL TO COME ON THE "NEWSHOUR":
A FORECAST THAT THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT WILL COST JOBS; WHAT'S
BEHIND THE RECENT MARKET
JITTERS; THE NEW PH TOUS GET
TEENS NOT TO SMOKE; USING
PLAYTIME AS A TOOL FOR LEARNING;
AFGHAN PRESIDENT KARZAI'S SECRET
TALKS WITH THE TALIBAN; PLUS,
AHEAD OF THE OLYMPICS,
CONFRONTING RUSSIA'S STANCE ON
GAY RIGHTS.
>> Ifill: THE CONGRESSIONAL
BUDGET OFFICE'S ASSESSMENT OF
THE ECONOMIC FALLOUT FROM THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT RE-IGNITED
PARTISAN DEBATE TODAY.
THE NEW REPORT FOCUSED ON THE
IMPACT THE LAW COULD HAVE ON THE
LABOR FORCE, SPECIFICALLY, HOW
IT COULD LEAD TO FEWER FULL-TIME
WORKERS OVER THE NEXT DECADE.
JULIE ROVNER OF N.P.R. HAS BEENE
ANALYSIS, AND THE REACTION ALL
AROUND.
REACTION BY THE REPUBLICANS,
JULIE, IS THAT THIS IS A JOB
KILLER.
THE REACTION FROM THE DEMOCRATS
WAS THIS WAS GOOD NEWS.
WHICH IS IT?
>> WELL, I THINK IT WAS PROBABLY
NEITHER OF THOSE THINGS.
THE C.B.O. WAS VERY CAREFUL IN
ITS ANALYSIS.
BASICALLY WHAT IT SAID WAS A
LITTLE MORE OF WHAT IT SAID WHEN
IT FIRST ANALYZED THE ACT IN
2010 WHICH IS THAT THIS IS THE
INEVITABLE CONSEQUENCE OF WHEN
YOU GIVE PEOPLE HELP IN BUYING
HEALTH INSURANCE THAT YOU'RE
GOING TO DETER WORK OUT PUT.
NOW, WE SHOULD POINT OUT THIS IS
NOT EMPLOYERS CUTTING BACK ON
WORKERS THEY HIRE, THIS IS
PEOPLE NOT WORKING, EITHER
VOLUNTARILY DROPPING OUT OF T
THE NUMBER OF HOURS THEY WORK.
>> Pelley: THERE'S A DISTINCTION
TO BE DRAWN BETWEEN THIS
AFFECTING JOB SUPPLY AND WORKER
SUPPLY.
>> THIS IS ON THE SUPPLY-SIDE
NOT THE DEMAND SIDE.
THE C.B.O. SAID THE ESTIMATED
REDUCTION STEMS ALMOST ENTIRELY
FROM A NET DECLINE IN THE AMOUNT
OF LABORS WORKERS CHOOSE TO
SUPPLY RATHER FLAN A NET DROP IN
BUSINESSES' DEMAND FOR LABOR.
SO THESE ARE FEWER WORKERS IN
THE WORK FORCE, NOT FEWER
BUSINESSES HIRING.
>> Ifill: THE WHITE HOUSE WAS
EMPHASIZING THAT WORD "CHOOSE"
BY THE WAY, REPEATEDLY TODAY.
SO THEY SAID IT'S MOSTLY GOING
TO BE LOW-WAGE JOBS, LOW-WAGE
WORKER WHO WILL BE AFFECTED BY
THIS.
WHY
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
BECAUSE LOW WAGE WORKERS ARE
GETTING HOPE THE BUY THEIR
HEALTH INSURANCE SO FOR THEM
EVERY EXTRA HOUR THEY WORK COSTS
THEM MORE BECAUSE IF THEY WORK
MORE THEY WILL BE AT RISK OF
LOSING THE SUBSIDY OR IF THEY'RE
GETTING MEDICAID THEY WOULD BE
AT RISK OF LOSING THE MEDICAID
IF THEY EARN THAT MUCH MORE SO
THEY ARE MORE SENSITIVE TO
WORKING MORE AND THEREFORE
LOSING THAT BENEFIT.
>> Ifill: IN YOU'RE AN OLDER
WORKER IT PROVIDES AN INCENTIVE
TO RETIRE SOONER?
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
AND THESE WERE THINGS THAT WERE
ANTICIPATED WHEN THE LAW WAS
PASSED.
>> Ifill: SO NONE OF THIS WAS AN
UNANTICIPATED OR UNINTENDED
CONSEQUENCE OF THE LAW?
THIS IS SOMETHING PEOPLE SAW?
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
IF YOU'RE GOING TO GIVE PEOPLE
MONEY TO HELP THEM BUY HEALTH
INSURANCE YOU'RE GOING TO ASSUME
THESE THINGS WILL HAPPEN.
AS THE ADMINISTRATION SAID
TODAY, IF YOU TOOK AWAY MEDICARE
AND SOCIAL SECURITY YOU'D HAVE
MORE 95-YEAR-OLDS IN THE WORK
FORCE, TOO, THEY WOULD HAVE TO
WORK BECAUSE THEY DON'T HAVE
BENEFITS.
THAT MIGHT NOT BE WHAT YOU WANT
BUT THAT WOULD HAPPEN.
>> Pelley: IN THIS REPORT IT
TALKS ABOUT HEALTH CARE COSTS AS
WELL.
DO WE HAVE ANY EVIDENCE THAT THE
COST OF HEALTH CARE IS DECLINING
>> WHAT WE DO KNOW IS THAT THE
RISE IN HEALTH CARE SPENDING IS
LOWING.
WHAT WE DON'T KNOW IS WHETHER
IT'S BECAUSE OF THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT.
THERE'S A VERY LIVELY DEBATE
AMONG HEALTH CARE ECONOMISTS AS
TO THE IMPACT THAT THE LAW IS
HAVING.
THE C.B.O. VERY CAREFULLY SAID
"WE DON'T KNOW, EITHER."
SO THEY'RE NOT GOING TO SAY.
>> Ifill: THERE'S ALSO A DEBATE
ABOUT WHETHER THE A.C.A. IS MORE
EXPENSIVE THAN ORIGINALLY
ANTICIPATED.
DO WE KNOW THE ANSWER TO THAT?
>> ONE THING THATTY T HEAD OF
THE C.B.O. SAID IS THAT THERE IS
NO EVIDENCE THAT -- WHEN THEY
FIRST ESTIMATED HOW MUCH THE
BILL WOULD COST THEY SAID THAT
IT WOULD REDUCE DEFICITS BECAUSE
THE THINGS THAT ARE IN THE LAW
THAT RAISE MONEY ARE GREATER
THAN THE THINGS THAT ARE IN THE
LAW THAT SPEND MONEY, THAT
EVERYTHING THAT THEY HAVE
REESTIMATED, NOTHING HAS CHANGED
THAT.
SO THIS LAW IS STILL ANTICIPATED
TO REDUCE THE FEDERAL DEFICIT
OVER THESE TEN YEARS AND I GUESS
THE YEARS THAT FOLLOW THAT.
IT'S NOT YET SPENDING MORE THAN
IT TAKES IN.
>> Ifill: NOW, EVERY WEEK OR SO
THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
HUMAN SERVICES, SOMEONE COMES
OUT AND SAYS THIS IS THE NUMBER
OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE REGISTERED
WITH THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
BECAUSE OF THE BOTCHED ROLLOUT,
IS THAT NUMBER LESS THAN WHAT
WAS EXPECTED?
>> WELL, RIGHT NOW THEY'RE AT
ABOUT -- THE LAST TIME THEY TOLD
US IT WAS ABOUT THREE MILLION
AND THEY HAD BEEN AIMING FOR
SEVEN MILLION, WHICH WAS THE
SEVEN MILLION ESTIMATED BY THE
C.B.O.
NOW THE C.B.O. HAS ROLLED THAT
BACK TO SIX MILLION.
THAT'S JUST HOW MUCH THEY
ESTIMATE.
THEY'RE ALSO ESTIMATING A
MILLION FEWER ON MEDICAID, IT
WILL BE EIGHT MILLION INSTEAD OF
NINE MILLION.
>> Ifill: BY WHEN?
>> BY THE END OF THIS YEAR.
HOWEVER THE C.B.O. IS ALSO
ESTIMATING THAT THOSE NUMBERS
WILL CATCH UP IN FUTURE YEARS
THAT EVEN THOUGH THIS YEAR
RATHER THAN GETTING SEVEN
MILLION PEOPLE SIGNED UP IN THE
EXCHANGE THERE IS WILL ONLY BE
SIX MILLION IN 2015 AND 2016
THEY'LL CATCH UP TO THEIR
ESTIMATES FOR THOSE YEARS.
>> Ifill: SO IT'S NOT A
COMPLETELY -- IT'S A MIXED BAG
ABOUT WHETHER THIS IS EXPECTED
OR NOT.
ONE OTHER THINGS WHICH
INTERESTING WHICH WAS REFERRED
TO IN THIS REPORT TODAY IS THE
RISK CORRIDORS WHICH -- EXPLAIN,
FIRST OF ALL, WHAT THEY ARE AND
HOW -- WHAT THIS REPORT SAYS IS
HAPPENING.
>> THESE ARE PAYMENTS MADE TO
INSURANCE COMPANIES FROM THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IN CASE THEY
GET TOO MANY SICK PEOPLE BUT IF
A PARTICULAR PLAN GETS TOO MANY
SICK PEOPLE AND THEY DON'T HAVE
ENOUGH PREMIUMS TO COVER THEIR
EXPENSES THESE ARE SAFETY
VALVES, IF YOU WILL, FOR THE
INSURANCE COMPANIES.
REPUBLICANS HAVE BEEN TALKING
ABOUT REPEALING SOME OF THOSE
BECAUSE THEY'RE --
>> Ifill: THEY CALLED IT AN
INSURANCE COMPANY BAILOUT.
>> EXACTLY.
THAT WOULD HAVE THE IMPACT OF
PROBABLY RAISING PREMIUMSS.
HOWEVER, THE C.B.O. SAID THAT,
IN FACT, THERE WILL BE MORE
MONEY COMING FROM THE INSURANCE
COMPANIES TO THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT RATHER THAN THE OTHER
WAY AROUND SO IT WILL RAISE $8
BILLION FOR THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT.
SO IF REPUBLICANS WANT TO REPEAL
THAT, THEY HAVE TO FIND $8
BILLION TO HELP PAY FOR THAT.
THAT COULD BE A PROBLEM.
>> Pelley: JULIE ROVNER, NPR.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: IT'S BEEN A ROUGH
COUPLE OF WEEKS FOR SOME
OVERSEAS FINANCIAL MARKETS.
THAT WAS TRUE AGAIN OVERNIGHT IN
EUROPE AND ASIA WHERE STOCKS
FINISHED LOWER.
THE VOLATILITY OF LATE HAS
BROUGHT FRESH CONCERNS ABOUT
WHAT'S HAPPENING IN THE GLOBAL
ECONOMY AND THE CONNECTIONS WITH
THE U.S.
JEFFREY BROWN EXPLORES WHAT'S
BEHIND THE JITTERS AND ITS
RIPPLE EFFECTS.
>> Brown: MUCH OF THE CONCERN
SURROUNDS EMERGING MARKETS IN
COUNTRIES THAT ARE NOW NICKNAMED
THE FRAGILE FIVE: TURKEY, INDIA,
BRAZIL, SOUTH AFRICA AND
INDONESIA.
FOR ITS PART, THE DOW JONES
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE IS NEARING A
SO-CALLED CORRECTION, A DROP OF
10%.
WE LOOK AT WHAT'S HAPPENING
WITH:
ESWAR PRASAD IS AN ECONOMICS
PROFESSOR AT CORNELL UNIVERSITY,
A SENIOR FELLOW AT THE BROOKINGS
INSTITUTION, AND AUTHOR OF THE
NEW BOOK, "THE DOLLAR TRAP: HOW
THE U.S. DOLLAR TIGHTENED ITS
GRIP ON GLOBAL FINANCE."
AND ANDLIZ ANN SONDERS, CHIEF
INVESTMENT STRATEGIST FOR
CHARLES SCHWAB & COMPANY.
FOR THE RECORD, CHARLES SCHWAB
IS ONE OF THE NEWSHOUR'S
FUNDERS.
ESWAR PRASAD, LET ME BEGIN WITH
YOU AND LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
EMERGING MARKET CONCERNS.
THESE HAVE BEEN AREAS OF MAJOR
GROWTH FOR SOME TIME SO
GENERALLY SPEAKING, WHAT'S GOING
ON WITH THEM?
>> EMERGING MARKETS ARE FACING
TWO HITS RIGHT NOW: FIRST OF
ALL, THE CHINESE ECONOMY-- WHICH
IS A VERY IMPORTANT TRADING
PARTNER FOR MANY OF THE EMERGING
MARKETS-- LOOKS LIKE IT'S GOING
DOWN BUT MORE IMPORTANTLY THE
PROSPECT OF MONITORING,
TIGHTENING IN THE U.S. WHICH
COULD LEAD TO AN INCREASE IN
INTEREST RATES IN THE U.S. IS
CAUSING INVESTORS WORLDWIDE TO
START THINKING ABOUT WHETHER
THEY WANT TO LEAVE THEIR MONEY
IN THE EMERGING MARKET WHICH IS
LOOK A LITTLE RISKIER AND WHICH
HAVE UNCERTAIN PROSPECTS.
AND THIS IS LAYING ON THE
ABILITY OF THE EMERGING MARKETS
AND THE ECONOMIES YOU MENTION
HAVE A COMMON THREAD RUNNING
THROUGH THEM.
THEY HAVE LARGE CURRENT ACCOUNT
DEFICITS WHICH MEANS THEY RELY
ON FOREIGN CAPITAL TO FINANCE
SOME OF THEIR DOMESTIC
CONSUMPTION AND INVESTMENT, MANY
OF THEM HAVE BUDGET DEFICITS
THAT ARE QUITE LARGE AND MOST OF
THEM HAVE POLITICAL TURMOIL
WHICH MEANS THEY ARE UNABLE TO
TAKE THE RESPONSE NECESSARY TO
PUT THEIR ECONOMIES BACK ON THE
RIGHT TRACK.
SO THE CONFLUENCE OF A LOT OF
BAD THINGS HAPPENING AT THE SAME
TIME.
>> Brown: LIZ ANN SONDERS, PICK
UP A LITTLE BIT ON THAT ON THAT
TIE TO THE U.S., TO THE FED IN
PARTICULAR.
WHAT'S THE CONNECTION?
>> WELL, WE SAW IT LAST START
LAST SUMMER WHEN THE FED STARTED
TO HINT THEY WOULD TAPER THEIR
QUANTITATIVE EASING PURCHASES.
WHAT HAPPENED PRIOR TO THAT IS
SO MUCH OF THIS LIQUIDITY HAD
GONE TO CHASE YIELDS, HIGHER
YIELDS ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD.
SO YOU SAW A LOT OF MONEY GO
INTO EMERGING MARKET, THE
CURRENCY MARKETS, THE BOND
MARKETS AND THE EQUITY MARKETS
AND THE FEAR THE FED WAS PULLING
THE PUNCH BOWL AWAY STARTED TO
UNWIDE THESE TRADES.
THAT SET US UP TO NOT DO
ANYTHING IN SEPTEMBER AND OF
COURSE THEY NOT ONLY HINTED BUT
STARTED TAPERING SO YOU SAW A
RESURGENCE OF THE UNWINDING OF
WHAT THEY SOMETIMES CALL THIS
CARRY TRADES.
AND THAT'S REALLY WHAT YOU'RE
SEEING.
SO THE INFECTION IS IN THE
FINANCIAL MARKETS THAN I THINK
IT IS AT LEAST YET ECONOMIC
CONTAGION INTO THE U.S.
>> WELL, LET ME ASK ESWAR FIRST
ABOUT THE ECONOMIC FALLOUT IN
THESE COUNTRIES BEFORE WE GET
BACK TO THE U.S..
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT MARKETS,
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT CURRENCIES.
ARE WE SEEING THEIR IMPACT ON
THE STREETS IN THESE COUNTRIES?
>> IT'S NOT AS BAD AS IN THE
ASIAN FINANCIAL CRISIS IN
18998/'98 FOR INSTANCE.
THOSE EMERGING MARKETS HAVE, IN
FACT, LEARNED THEIR LESSONS.
THEY HAVE MORE FLEXIBLE EXCHANGE
WHICH IS MEANS THEY'RE NOT
TRYING TO AFFECT THE PARTICULAR
LEVEL OF THE CURRENCY.
THEY DON'T HAVE AS MUCH EXTERNAL
AS THEY USED TO HAVE A COUPLE
DECADES AGO AND THEY HAVE A LOT
MORE PROTECTION FROM FINANCIAL
CRISES.
BUT IT IS STILL A VERY ROUGH
ROAD AHOLD FOR THESE EMERGING
MARKETS BECAUSE FOREIGN CAPITAL
HAS STOPPED COMING IN AND IT'S
COMING IN AS THE SAME QUANTITIES
AS BEFORE WHICH MEANS THEY HAVE
TO TIGHTEN UP THEIR OWN DOMESTIC
POLICIES, ESPECIALLY BUDGET
POLICIES OR THEY HAVE TO REDUCE
THEIR DOMESTIC CONSUMPTION
AROUND INVESTMENT.
AT THE SAME TIME THEY HAVE
EMERGING MARKETS THAT CONTINUE
WITH HIGH INFLATION AND OTHER
PROBLEMS DOMESTICALLY.
SO THEY NEED TO FIX A LOT BEFORE
THEY CAN GET THEIR ECONOMIES
BACK ON THE GROWTH TRAJECTORY.
>> Brown: LIZ ANN SONDERS, GIVEN
THAT, WHAT ARE THE PROSPECTS FOR
WHAT WE CALL CONTAGION.
ALL OF WHAT'S HAPPENING THERE
BOUNCING BACK TO US AND GETTING
EVEN WORSE?
>> I THINK SOMEWHAT LIMITED, AT
LEAST INTO THE BROADER ECONOMY.
THERE'S NO QUESTION THAT THERE
ARE RIPPLE EFFECTS AND THERE IS
SOME FEAR THAT WE ARE
POTENTIALLY SEEING A REPEAT OF
THE LATE 1990s, ALTHOUGH I WOULD
AGREE DIFFERENCES ARE IMPORTANT.
NOTEFULLY DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
PEGGED EXCHANGE RATES AND
FLEXIBLE EXCHANGE RATES SO I
DON'T THINK WE HAVE THAT TYPE OF
SCENARIO.
BUT MARGIN DEBT RECENTLY HIT IN
AN ABSOLUTE SENSE AN ALL-TIME
HIGH.
SO THE CONTAGION SOMETIMES
HAPPENS WHEN A LOT OF INVESTORS
WHO ARE STARTING TO LOSE MONEY
IN MANY OF THESE ASSET CLASSES
GET MARGIN CALLS, THEY HAVE TO
SELL OTHER ASSETS.
SO THAT'S WHERE THE CONTAGION
TENDS TO COME INTO PLAY.
I THINK IT'S THE SHORT-LIVED
SITUATION.
I THINK WE MIGHT BE SOMEWHAT
LIMITED IN TERMS OF THE
CORRECTION WE'RE GOING TO SEE.
IT MAY HAVE A LITTLE BIT MORE TO
GO, BUT I DON'T THINK THE BULL
MARKET IS OVER.
BUT THERE'S A LOT OF CONCERN
THAT THERE MAY BE SOME DEAD
BODIES BURIED KIND OF LIKE
LONG-TERM CAPITAL IN THE LATE
1990s.
AND UNTIL WE SETTLE SOME OF
THOSE QUESTIONS WE PROBABLY IS V
SOME MORE VOLATILITY.
>> Brown: DEAD BODIES BURIED IN
TERMS OF BAD INVESTMENTS AROUND
THE WORLD.
WHAT ABOUT THE U.S. ECONOMY?
HOW -- WHAT'S THE INTERPLAY NOW,
LIZ ANN SONDERS, STARTING WITH
YOU, AS YOU LOOK AT THE
POTENTIAL FOR A CORRECTION?
>> WELL, A LITTLE BIT OF A
DOUBLE WHAMMY FOR THE MARKETS,
THE U.S. MARKETS ANYWAYS IN THE
FACT THAT SOME OF THE RECENT
ECONOMIC DATA HAS BEEN FAIRLY
WEAK.
SO THAT A MONTH AGO WE GOT A
VERY, VERY WEAK JOBS NUMBER.
ON THE SURFACE, ANYWAY, IT
SEEMED IT WAS HIGHLY WEATHER
RELATED.
THE PROBLEM IS THE WEATHER
HASN'T IMPROVED SO WE HAVE
ANOTHER JOBS REPORT COMING OUT
LATER THIS WEEK AND IF IT'S WEAK
AGAIN, EVEN IF IT'S CITED AS
WEATHER BEING ONE OF THE
PROBLEMS, THAT'S STILL GOING TO
SEND SOME RIPPLES.
WE HAD THE I.S.M. MANUFACTURING
NUMBER COME OUT THAT WAS QUITE A
BIT WEAKER THAN EXPECTED, ALSO
WITH WEATHER AS ONE OF THE
REASONS CITED.
SO WE HAVE SOME NEAR-TERM ANGST.
WE'RE DEALING WITH UNCERTAINTY
REGARDING THE ECONOMY AND AS FAR
AS THE WEATHER IS CONCERNED--
SPEAKING FROM SOMEBODY IN THE
NORTHEAST-- WE'RE NOT GOING TO
GET AN ANSWER FOR SOME TIME AS
TO HOW MUCH OF AN IMPACT WEATHER
HAS HAD.
>> Brown: AND ESWAR PRASAD, AS
YOU WATCH THE WORLD, AND
ESPECIALLY THESE EMERGING
ECONOMIZE THAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT IT SEEMS LIKE EVERYDAY
THERE'S A DIFFERENT STORY ABOUT
A DIFFERENT ONE OF THEM AND THEY
ARE VERY SPECIFIC ISSUES, OF
COURSE.
BUT ARE THERE ONE TWO THAT
YOU'RE MOST FOCUSED ON TO HELP
YOU AND MAYBE HELP US THINK
ABOUT WHERE WE'RE HEADED?
>> TURKEY AND ENERGY THAT ARE
THE MOST VOLATILE CASES BECAUSE
THEY HAVE ENORMOUS POLITICAL
PROBLEMS.
BUT IN ADDITION THEY HAVE FAIRLY
SIGNIFICANT CURRENT ACCOUNT
DEFICITS SO THEY RELY ON A LOT
OF FOREIGN CAPITAL.
OTHER COUNTRIES LIKE INDIA AND
BRAZIL ARE ALSO FACING
TREMENDOUS DOMESTIC TENSIONS
BECAUSE THEY HAVE VERY HIGH
INFLATION WHICH MEANS THE
CENTRAL BANKS NEED TO TIGHTEN
MONETARY POLICY, INCREASE
INTEREST RATES IN ORDER TO FIGHT
INFLATION BUT THAT REDUCES
DOMESTIC ACTIVITY.
SO ULTIMATELY IT'S GOING TO BE A
VERY DIFFICULT BALANCING ACT FOR
THESE ECONOMIES AND FOR THE U.S.
IT'S GOING TO BE A MIXED
BLESSING.
ON THE ONE HAND IT MEANS MORE
MONEY COMING TO THE ANTITRUST
SERGE OF SAFETY BUT ON THE OTHER
HAND THE EMERGING MARKETS HAVE
BEEN A VERY IMPORTANT PART OF
THE WORLD ECONOMY.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT 40% OF WORLD
G.D.P. SO LACK OF DEMAND IS NOT
GOOD FOR THE U.S. AND IF THE
DOLLAR REMAINS STRONGER THAN IT
OUGHT TO BE OTHERWISE, THAT'S
GOING TO MEAN LESS JOB GROWTH,
LESS EXPORTS TO THE U.S. AND
RIGHT NOW WHEN THE ECONOMY IS
WEAK EVERY LITTLE BIT HELPS AND
THIS IS GOING TO HURT.
>> Brown: LIZ ANN SONDERS, JUST
IN OUR LAST 30 SECONDS, SO MUCH
OF THIS IS ABOUT BIG TRADERS, OF
COURSE, IN THE MARKETS.
WHAT ABOUT REGULAR OLD INVESTORS
AT A TIME LIKE THIS?
WHAT'S THE ADVICE?
>> WELL, THE POTENTIAL GOOD NEWS
IF YOU WANT TO CALL IT THAT IS
THAT A LOT OF INDIVIDUAL
INVESTORS HAVE LARGELY STAYED
OUT OF THIS MARKET.
THEY'VE BEEN VERY SKEPTICAL OVER
THE LAST FIVE YEARS.
SO I DON'T THINK O.A.U.'VE HAD
THE MASS INFLUX THAT YOU MIGHT
EXPECT GIVE THAN WE'RE IN A FIVE
YEAR BULL MARKET.
I DO THINK MORE OF THE ACTIVITY
YOU'RE SEEING IS COMING FROM THE
INSTITUTIONAL SIDE, LESS SO ON
THE INDIVIDUAL INVESTOR SIDE.
I THINK ULTIMATELY THIS IS A
BUYABLE CORRECTION, IF YOU WANT
TO CALL IT THAT.
SO I THINK WE'LL ULTIMATELY BE
OKAY BUT IT'S GOING TO BE ROUGH
FOR THE NEAR TERM.
>> Brown: LIZ ANN SONDERS, ESWAR
PRASAD, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: TARNISHED TEETH,
PREMATURELY WRINKLED SKIN ON
TEENAGE FACES, AND STUDENTS
SUBJECTED TO BULLYING.
THOSE ARE THE IMAGES OF A NEW
MULTIMEDIA ANTI-SMOKING CAMPAIGN
BEING LAUNCHED BY THE FOOD AND
DRUG ADMINISTRATION.
IT'S A $115 MILLION CAMPAIGN
THAT WILL RUN IN 200 MARKETS
OVER THE COURSE OF A YEAR,
BEGINNING NEXT WEEK.
THE GOAL: USE ADS LIKE THESE TO
GET THROUGH TO YOUNGER AMERICANS
ABOUT THE PERSONAL COSTS OF
CIGARETTES.
KATHY CROSBY IS THE DIRECTOR OF
HEALTH COMMUNICATION AND
EDUCATION AT THE
F.D.A.'S CENTER FOR TOBACCO
PRODUCTS, MAKING HER A POINT
PERSON ON THIS CAMPAIGN.
SHE JOINS ME NOW.
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
>> THANKS SO MUCH FOR HAVING ME.
>> Woodruff: SO THESE ADS ARE
DESIGNED TO GET TO THESE TEENAGE
HERBS, DIFFERENT FROM ADS THAT
HAVE RUN BEFORE HOW?
>> WELL, WE DID COMPREHENSIVE
RESEARCH TO UNDERSTAND WHAT
WOULD REALLY MAKE A DIFFERENCE
TO THESE AT RISK TEENS AND
THROUGH THE EVALUATION OF THE
RESEARCH WE UNDERSTOOD THAT
THERE WERE CERTAIN MESSAGE
PLATFORMS THAT SPOKE REALLY
PERSONALLY TO THESE KIDS.
ONE IS THE MOTION OF LOSS OF
CONTROL AND ONE IS THE
UNDERSTANDING THAT THERE ARE
HEALTH COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH
EVERY SINGLE CIGARETTE BUT NOT
NECESSARILY THE ONES THAT YOU
THINK OF FROM A LONG-TERM
STANDPOINT LIKE DEATH OR
EMPHYSEMA.
THE KIDS WHO ARE MOST AT RISK
FOR SMOKING DON'T CONSIDER
THEMSELVES TO BE SMOKERS.
THEY DON'T EVER BELIEVE THEY'LL
BE ADDICTED AND EVEN IF THEY
THINK THEY'RE ADDICTED THEY
THINK THEY CAN QUIT AT ANY TIME.
SO WE HAD TO FOCUS IN ON HEALTH
CONSEQUENCES THAT WE KNEW COULD
GET TO THEM MORE IN THE SHORT
TERM.
>> Pelley: LET'S LOOK AT ONE OF
THE ADS THE F.D.A. IS RUNNING.
WE'LL SHOW THIS RIGHT NOW.
>> HEY, BUDDY!
LET'S TAKE A LITTLE WALK!
WHEN I SAY GO OUTSIDE, WE GO
OUTSIDE!
WHEN I SAY FORK IT OVER, YOU
FORK IT OVER!
HEY, WHEN I SAY PAUSE THE MOVIE,
WE PAUSE THE MOVIE.
SO LONG, BIG BOY.
PUCKER UP!
>> CIGARETTES ARE BULLIES.
DON'T LET TOBACCO CONTROL YOU.
>> Pelley: YOU MENTIONED LOSS OF
CONTROL.
THAT'S WHAT THAT'S ABOUT.
>> IT IS AND IT'S VERY IMPORTANT
TO THESE YOUTH BECAUSE THEY'RE
JUST STARTING TO EXPERIENCE
CONTROL IN THEIR LIFE AND THE
LAST THING THEY WANT TO DO IS
THINK AN UNHEALTHY
RELATIONSHIP-- IN THIS CASE
NICOTINE ADDICTION-- COULD TAKE
THAT CONTROL AWAY FROM THEM AND
WE KNOW THESE ADDS THROUGH THE
RESEARCH HAVE BEEN FOUND TO BE
VERY POWERFUL.
>> Pelley: YOU'RE ALSO RUNNING
ADS-- AND WE SHOWED ONE BEFORE--
ABOUT THIS WAS A PHOTOGRAPH OF
TEETH.
YOU'RE SHOWING A MODEL WITH
PERFECTLY WHITE TEETH AND THEN
ANOTHER PICTURE OF THE SAME
YOUNG WOMAN WPL VERY YELLOW
ALMOST BROWNISH TEETH.
>> YES.
WE'RE REALLY FOCUSING ON SOME OF
THE CONSEQUENCES THAT MATTER.
NOT THAT OBVIOUSLY THE MORE
SERIOUS ONES DON'T, BUT WHEN YOU
THINK ABOUT THE NOTION OF YOUR
APPEAL, THAT YOU COULD BE LESS
THAN APPEALING.
THAT'S A RELEVANT AND MOTIVATING
THING TO A YOUNG WOMAN SO IN THE
CASE OF THE AD YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT, SHOWING THAT THE REAL
EFFECTS THAT SMOKING HAS ON YOUR
TEETH OR SKIN, IT'S MOTIVATING.
IS.
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU KNOW
THESE MESSAGES WILL COME
THROUGH?
>> WE DID COMPREHENSIVE
RESEARCH.
AS A REGULATORY AGENCY
EVERYTHING WE DO IS STEEPED IN
RESEARCH.
WE TOOK THESE ADS AND TALKED TO
OVER
1600 YOUTHS IN TERMS OF THE ADS,
WERE THEY RELEVANT, MEANINGFUL,
DID THEY BREAK THROUGH, DID THEY
MAKE KIDS THINK?
BECAUSE ULTIMATELY OUR GOAL IS
TO CHANGE THEIR ATTITUDES
TOWARDS TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND
ULTIMATELY CHANGE THEIR
BEHAVIORS AND FROM THE RESEARCH
WE KNOW THESE ADS DID VERY WELL
UNTIL DELIVERING NEW NEWS AND IN
COMPELLING AND PERSUASIVE WAYS.
>> Woodruff: I SAW TOBACCO
COMPANIES SAYING ESSENTIALLY
WELL WE AGREE TEEN SMOKING IS A
PROBLEM.
WHAT ROLE ARE THEY PLAYING IN
ALL OF THIS?
>> WELL, THESE ACTUALLY FUNDED
BY TOBACCO USER FEES.
SO NOT TAXPAYER DOLLARS.
>> Woodruff: THIS WAS A RESULT
OF A JUDGE'S RULING, A COURT
RULING.
>> WELL, THE CONGRESS THROUGH
THE TOBACCO CONTROL ACT GAVE
F.D.A. THE AUTHORITY TO REGULATE
THE PRODUCTS SO AS PART OF THAT
AUTHORITY WE HAVE THE ABILITY TO
EDUCATE ON THE DANGERS OF THE
PRODUCT AND THAT'S WHAT THESE
ADS ARE ABOUT.
>> Woodruff: HOW ARE WE REACHING
THESE YOUNG PEOPLE?
WHAT KINDS OF PLACES ARE THEY
GOING TO SEE THEM OR HEAR THEM?
>> BASICALLY, ANYWHERE WHERE A
TEEN ENGAGED IN MEDIA WE HOPE TO
BE THERE.
SO IT'S LIKE FISH WHERE THE FISH
ARE.
SO EVERYTHING FROM MOVE AND
VIACOM PROGRAMS, TELEVISION,
RADIO, PRINT, AND AN EXTENSIVE
OPPORTUNITY TO ENGAGE WITH THEM
IN SOCIAL MEDIA THROUGH KEY
PLATFORMS WHERE YOUTH ENGAGE
LIKE TWITTER, YOUTUBE.
>> Woodruff: ONLINE.
WEB SITES AND SO FORTH.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> Woodruff: HOW, KATHY CROSBY,
DO WE MEASURE WHETHER THIS IS
SUCCESSFUL?
WHAT DO YOU DO TO FIND OUT IF
THIS IS CHANGING TEEN BEHAVIORS?
>> SO WE HAVE ESTABLISHED A VERY
COMPREHENSIVE BENCHMARK TRACKING
STUDY.
SO WE JUST CONCLUDED INTERVIEWS
WITH
8,000 YOUTH ACROSS THE ANTITRUST
5 MARKETS AND WE WILL FOLLOW
THESE SAME 8,000 YOUTH TO
UNDERSTAND HOW THE CAMPAIGN HAS
AFFECTED THEIR ATTITUDES TOWARDS
THE PRODUCT AND THEIR BEHAVIORS
TOWARDS THE PRODUCT.
SO HOPEFULLY AT THE END OF THIS
TIME WE'LL HAVE DONE OUR JOB
RIGHT, WE BELIEVE THAT THE
MESSAGE ARE INSPIRING, THEY'RE
RELEVANT, THEY'RE CREDIBLE,
THEY'RE MEANINGFUL AND MEMORABLE
AND WE BELIEVE OVER TIME WE'LL
SEE HOW EFFECTIVE WE HAVE BEEN.
>> Woodruff: BUT YOU'LL HAVE
SOME HARD DATA.
>> OH, YES.
F.D.A. IS REGULATORY AND
EVERYTHING IS STEEPED IN DATA.
>> Woodruff: KATHY CROSBY WITH
THE FOOD AND DRUG
ADMINISTRATION.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR HAVING
ME.
>> Ifill: NOW TO OUR CONTINUING
LOOK AT EDUCATION.
AS SCHOOLS DAYS GROW LONGER, SO
DO THE ACADEMIC BURDENS BEING
IMPOSED ON STUDENTS.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME, SCHOOL
SYSTEMS ARE CUTTING BACK ON  THE
ARTS, PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND
EVEN RECESS.
SOME RESEARCHERS SAY THAT IS
COUNTERPRODUCTIVE, DEPRIVING
STUDENTS OF EXERCISE THAT CAN
HELP THEM LEARN.
THE NEWSHOUR'S APRIL BROWN
REPORTS FOR OUR "AMERICAN
GRADUATE PROJECT."
>> Reporter: THE KIDS IN KATIE
MCLIVER'S FIRST GRADE CLASS AT
FOX HILL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL ARE
NO STRANGERS TO THE DANCE FLOOR
SHORT BRAIN BREAKS LIKE THIS ARE
PART OF REGULAR, PURPOSEFUL
PHYSICAL ACTIVITIES THAT TAKE
PLACE EVERY DAY AT THIS SUBURBAN
INDIANAPOLIS SCHOOL, BOTH INSIDE
THE CLASSROOM AND OUT.
>> AS A GROWN MAN, PLAYING GAMES
IS A DREAM JOB.
>> Reporter: TOM O'NEILL IS
KNOWN AS COACH TOM AROUND HERE.
THE MAN WHO HAS A SLEW OF GAMES
FOR EVERY GRADE AND HELPS MAKE
SURE ALL FOX HILL KIDS HAVE A
CHANCE TO MOVE AND PLAY DURING
THE DAY.
O'NEILL IS THE SCHOOL'S
COORDINATOR FOR PLAYWORKS, A
NATIONAL NON-PROFIT THAT HELPS
FUND POSITIONS FOR COACHES LIKE
HIM IN LOW INCOME SCHOOLS.
>> BY PLAYING GAMES WE LEARN HOW
TO SOCIALIZE WITH EACH OTHER.
WE LEARN ABOUT FAIR PLAY AND
RESPECTING EACH OTHER.
IF WE DON'T PLAY THOSE GAMES HOW
ARE WE SUPPOSED GO OUT AND HAVE
A CONVERSATION WITH SOMEBODY IF
WE CANT EVEN PLAY A ME WGAITH
THEM.
>> I REMEMBER BEING A STUDENT IN
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL AND HAVING
MULTIPLE RECESSES THAT WERE MUCH
LONGER THAN 15 MINUTES.
>> Reporter: PRINCIPAL SEAN
TAYLOR HEARD ABOUT PLAYWORKS
FROM A PARENT, AND FOUND OUT THE
NON-PROFIT WOULD PAY FOR HALF OF
COACH TOM'S SALARY.
WHILE THERE WERE MANY THINGS HIS
SCHOOL NEEDED, PRINCIPAL TAYLOR
DECIDED PICKING UP THE OTHER
HALF WOULD BE A GOOD INVESTMENT.
THAT'S BECAUSE LIFE AT FOX HILL
ELEMENTARY IS NOT ALL FUN AND
GAMES.
THERE IS A BIG FOCUS ACADEMICS
AT THIS SCHOOL, WHICH HAS MANY
ENGLISH LANGUAGE LEARNERS AND
WHERE 80% OF STUDENTS ARE
ELIGIBLE FOR FREE AND REDUCED
LUNCH.
BUT DESPITE GREAT EXPECTATIONS,
PRINCIPAL TAYLOR BELIEVES THERE
MUST BE BALANCE.
>> WE UNDERSTAND THE STAKES ARE
HIGH AND WE WELCOME THOSE
STAKES, WE WANT THE BEST FOR OUR
STUDENTS HERE AS WELL BUT WE
KNOW THAT IN ORDER TO GET THE
BEST WE HAVE EDUCATE THE WHOLE
CHILD WHICH MEANS WE HAVE TO
ALWAYS TAKE INTO ACCOUNT THEIR
PHYSICAL HEALTH, THEIR MENTAL
HEALTH AS WELL AS THEIR ABILITY
TO READ, WRITE AND DO MATH
>> IN THE PAST WHERE PRINCIPALS
HAVE SAID WELL ITS A FRILL WE
CAN TAKE IT OUT OF THE SCHOOLS
THEY ARE NOW RETHINKING THAT AND
PUTTING PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY IN PARTICULAR
THE PHYSICAL ACTIVITY BREAKS AND
RECESS BACK INTO THE SCHOOLS.
>> Reporter: AS THE DISTRICT
DIRECTOR FOR PHYSICAL EDUCATION
AND HEALTH LITERACY IN FLORIDA'S
IAMIM-DADE COUNTY, JAYNE
GREENBERG HAS SEEN THE STRUGGLE
TO BALANCE EXERCISE WITH
EDUCATNAL IOACHIEVEMENT.
GREENBERG WAS A MEMBER OF THE
NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES
INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE COMMITTEE
WHICH RECENTLY PUBLISHED A
REPORT REVEALING HOW
SHORTSIGHTED CUTTING RECESS AND
P.E. PROGRAMS HAS BEEN.
>> WE KNOW NOW WERE SEEING
VARIOUS STATES THAT IN LOOKING A
CORRELATIONS THAT THERE IS A
HIGH CRELAORTION BETWEEN
PHYSICAL FITNESS AND ACADEMIC
PERFORMANCE ON STANDARDIZED
TESTS.
PLAY IS A CHILD'S WORK, THAT'S
THEIR WORK WORLD.
I'VE ALWAYS TOLD ADULTS I CANT
SIT FOR SEVEN HOURS A DAY WHY
WOULD WE EXPECT A FIVE YEAR OLD
TO BE ABLE TO.
>> Reporter: FOURTH GRADER LIZZY
MAZE WOULD AGREE ITS MUCH EASIER
TO CONCENTRATE AFTER RECESS OR A
COUPLE OF GAMES:
>> YOU'VE GOT ALL THE WIGGLES
HAD A LITTLE FUN SO NOW YOU'RE
REALLY TIRED SO YOU ARE READY TO
DO SOME WORK.
>> ITS LIKE A DIFFERENT CLASS,
YOU CAN TELL THEY'VE HAD A GOOD
TIME THEY'VE EXPENDED A LOT OF
ENERGY AND THEY ARE READY TO
FOCUS AND SETTLE DOWN.
WOULDN'T KNOW IT TODAY THIRD
>> Reporter: AND EVEN THOUGH YOU
GRADE TEACHER KIM MORROW USED TO
WOULDN'T KNOW IT TODAY THIRD
ABSOLUTELY DREAD RECESS.
GRADE TEACHER KIM MORROW USED TO
>> I JUST DID NOT LOOK FORWARD
ABSOLUTELY DREAD RECESS.
TO KIDS COMING OUT AND GETTING
>> I JUST DID NOT LOOK FORWARD
IN ARGUMENTS IT WAS VERY
TO KIDS COMING OUT AND GETTING
STRESSFUL BUT NOW THAT NEVER
IN ARGUMENTS IT WAS VERY
HAPPENS, IT'S LIKE YOU GO OUT
STRESSFUL BUT NOW THAT NEVER
THE KIDS ARE HAVING FUN WE CAN
HAPPENS, IT'S LIKE YOU GO OUT
HAVE FUN WITH THEM ITS JUST A
THE KIDS ARE HAVING FUN WE CAN
POSITIVE TIME TOGETHER
HAVE FUN WITH THEM ITS JUST A
>> THERE ARE DAYS WHEN IT IS
POSITIVE TIME TOGETHER
SIMPLY TOO COLD OR TOO ICY FOR
>> THERE ARE DAYS WHEN IT IS
THE CHILDREN TO PLAY SAFELY
SIMPLY TOO COLD OR TOO ICY FOR
OUTSIDE.
THE CHILDREN TO PLAY SAFELY
THAT MEANS THAT COACH TOM HAS TO
OUTSIDE.
GET CREATIVE IN THE CLASSROOM
THAT MEANS THAT COACH TOM HAS TO
>> Reporter: ONE OF THE POPULAR
GET CREATIVE IN THE CLASSROOM
INDOOR ACTIVITIES IS THE GUARD
>> Reporter: ONE OF THE POPULAR
DOG GAME.
INDOOR ACTIVITIES IS THE GUARD
THE CHILD SITTING IN THE MIDDLE
DOG GAME.
MUST USE EVERY SENSE BUT SIGHT
THE CHILD SITTING IN THE MIDDLE
TO FIGURE OUT WHO'S TRYING TO
MUST USE EVERY SENSE BUT SIGHT
TAKE THE TOY FROM UNDER THE
TO FIGURE OUT WHO'S TRYING TO
CHAIR:
TAKE THE TOY FROM UNDER THE
>> WE HAVE TO BE QUIET WE ARE
CHAIR:
INSIDE WERE NOT OUTSIDE RUNNING
>> WE HAVE TO BE QUIET WE ARE
AROUND SO IT ALSO TEACHES US
INSIDE WERE NOT OUTSIDE RUNNING
PATIENCE THAT ALRIGHT ITS NOT
AROUND SO IT ALSO TEACHES US
OUR TURN YET SO WERE GOING TO BE
PATIENCE THAT ALRIGHT ITS NOT
QUIET, WERE GOING TO ENJOY
OUR TURN YET SO WERE GOING TO BE
WHAT'S HAPPENING AND WE CAN HAVE
QUIET, WERE GOING TO ENJOY
FUN STILL EVEN THOUGH IF WERE
WHAT'S HAPPENING AND WE CAN HAVE
NOT PARTICIPATING WE CAN HAVE
FUN STILL EVEN THOUGH IF WERE
FUN.
NOT PARTICIPATING WE CAN HAVE
>> Reporter: STUDENTS ARE
FUN.
LEARNING PLENTY OF OTHER SOFT
>> Reporter: STUDENTS ARE
SKILLS FROM THESE GAMES:  LIKE
LEARNING PLENTY OF OTHER SOFT
KINDNESS, INCLUSIVENESS, AND
SKILLS FROM THESE GAMES:  LIKE
GOOD SPORTSMANSHIP.
KINDNESS, INCLUSIVENESS, AND
THEY ARE SKILLS NOT ALL CHILDREN
GOOD SPORTSMANSHIP.
CAN PICK UP AT HOME, ACCORDING
THEY ARE SKILLS NOT ALL CHILDREN
TO PLAYWORKS INDIANA'S EXECUTIVE
CAN PICK UP AT HOME, ACCORDING
DIRECTOR MARC MCALEAVEY:
TO PLAYWORKS INDIANA'S EXECUTIVE
>> WE KNOW THAT THOSE SOFT
DIRECTOR MARC MCALEAVEY:
SKILLS HAVE TREMENDOUS VALUE IN
>> WE KNOW THAT THOSE SOFT
THE DEVELOPMENT OF KIDS
SKILLS HAVE TREMENDOUS VALUE IN
THEY USE POSITIVE LANGUAGE, THEY
THE DEVELOPMENT OF KIDS
WHEN THEY LOSE THEY LOSE WELL,
THEY USE POSITIVE LANGUAGE, THEY
WHEN THEY WIN THEY WIN WELL.
WHEN THEY LOSE THEY LOSE WELL,
THEY TAKE THAT TO THE LIVING
WHEN THEY WIN THEY WIN WELL.
ROOM OF THEIR HOUSE, THEY TAKE
THEY TAKE THAT TO THE LIVING
THAT TO THEIR BLOCKS, TO THEIR
ROOM OF THEIR HOUSE, THEY TAKE
ALLEYS, THEY TAKE THAT BEYOND
THAT TO THEIR BLOCKS, TO THEIR
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL TO HIGH SCHOOL
ALLEYS, THEY TAKE THAT BEYOND
AND COLLEGE
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL TO HIGH SCHOOL
>> Reporter: AND PERHAPS
AND COLLEGE
UNEXPECTEDLY, THIS KIND OF PLAY
>> Reporter: AND PERHAPS
HAS INTRODUCED A POPULAR
UNEXPECTEDLY, THIS KIND OF PLAY
CONFLICT RESOLUTION TOOL CALLED
HAS INTRODUCED A POPULAR
ROSHAMBO, AS FIFTH GRADER
CONFLICT RESOLUTION TOOL CALLED
AHONSTI MORROW EXPLAINS.
ROSHAMBO, AS FIFTH GRADER
>> ITS BASICALLY LIKE ROCK,
AHONSTI MORROW EXPLAINS.
PAPER, SCISSORS
>> ITS BASICALLY LIKE ROCK,
IF SOMEONE WANTS TO SIT NEXT TO
PAPER, SCISSORS
THEIR TEACHER YOU HAVE TO
IF SOMEONE WANTS TO SIT NEXT TO
ROSHAMBO AND IF THE OTHER
THEIR TEACHER YOU HAVE TO
PERSONS GETS IT THEN THAT'S THE
ROSHAMBO AND IF THE OTHER
PERSON THAT GETS TO SIT BY THE
PERSONS GETS IT THEN THAT'S THE
TEACHER.
PERSON THAT GETS TO SIT BY THE
>> Reporter: JAMES VALDEZ, A
TEACHER.
FOURTH GRADE TEACHER AT FOX
>> Reporter: JAMES VALDEZ, A
HILL, SAYS HAVING STUDENTS BE
FOURTH GRADE TEACHER AT FOX
ABLE TO QUICKLY SOLVE PROBLEMS
HILL, SAYS HAVING STUDENTS BE
THEMSELVES ALLOWS MORE TIME FOR
ABLE TO QUICKLY SOLVE PROBLEMS
LEARNING:
THEMSELVES ALLOWS MORE TIME FOR
>> THE ACTIVITIES THAT THEY DO
LEARNING:
IN PLAYWORKS  PROMOTES THAT
>> THE ACTIVITIES THAT THEY DO
CONFLICT RESOLUTION.
IN PLAYWORKS  PROMOTES THAT
THAT PIECE IS REALLY IMPORTANT,
CONFLICT RESOLUTION.
THAT ALLOWS THEM TO SOLVE AN
THAT PIECE IS REALLY IMPORTANT,
ARGUMENT QUICKLY OR ALLOWS THEM
THAT ALLOWS THEM TO SOLVE AN
TO EVEN BE OKAY WITH SITTING
ARGUMENT QUICKLY OR ALLOWS THEM
NEXT TO SOMEBODY SO THEY CAN
TO EVEN BE OKAY WITH SITTING
FOCUS ON THE ASSIGNMENT THAT
NEXT TO SOMEBODY SO THEY CAN
THEY HAVE.
FOCUS ON THE ASSIGNMENT THAT
>> Reporter: BUT THE GAMES AND
THEY HAVE.
ACTIVITIES WITH COACH TOM
>> Reporter: BUT THE GAMES AND
PROVIDE SOMETHING SPECIAL FOR
ACTIVITIES WITH COACH TOM
SOME STUDENTS, A LEADERSHIP
PROVIDE SOMETHING SPECIAL FOR
OPPORTUNITY.
SOME STUDENTS, A LEADERSHIP
A GROUP OF STUDENTS IN THE OLDER
OPPORTUNITY.
GRADES ARE CHOSEN TO BE JUNIOR
A GROUP OF STUDENTS IN THE OLDER
COACHES, THE PURPLE SHIRTS THEY
GRADES ARE CHOSEN TO BE JUNIOR
WEAR INDICATE THEIR JOB IS TO
COACHES, THE PURPLE SHIRTS THEY
HELP THE YOUNGER ONES WITH NEW
WEAR INDICATE THEIR JOB IS TO
GAMES OR EVEN A BIT OF ADVICE.
HELP THE YOUNGER ONES WITH NEW
FIFTH GRADER CHYLA GLOVER IS ONE
GAMES OR EVEN A BIT OF ADVICE.
OF FOX HILLS JUNIOR COACHES AND
FIFTH GRADER CHYLA GLOVER IS ONE
SAYS THIS IS THE FIRST TIME
OF FOX HILLS JUNIOR COACHES AND
OTHER KIDS HAVE EVER LOOKED UP
SAYS THIS IS THE FIRST TIME
TO HER.
OTHER KIDS HAVE EVER LOOKED UP
GLOVER AND OTHER JUNIOR COACHES
TO HER.
LEARN NEW ACTIVITIES TO SHARE
GLOVER AND OTHER JUNIOR COACHES
AFTER SCHOOL.
LEARN NEW ACTIVITIES TO SHARE
AND FOR CHYLA GETTING EXTRA TIME
AFTER SCHOOL.
WITH COACH TOM HAS BEEN VERY
AND FOR CHYLA GETTING EXTRA TIME
MEANINGFUL:
WITH COACH TOM HAS BEEN VERY
>> HE'S KIND OF LIKE MY BEST
MEANINGFUL:
FRIEND BECAUSE HE TRULY
>> HE'S KIND OF LIKE MY BEST
UNDERSTANDS ME AND HE LISTENS TO
FRIEND BECAUSE HE TRULY
ME
UNDERSTANDS ME AND HE LISTENS TO
>> Reporter: CLEARLY FOR MANY
ME
KIDS, COACH TOM HAS A SPECIAL
>> Reporter: CLEARLY FOR MANY
ROLE AT FOX HILL, HE'S A CARING
KIDS, COACH TOM HAS A SPECIAL
ADULT THEY SEE EVERY DAY, ONE
ROLE AT FOX HILL, HE'S A CARING
WHO HAS ABSOLUTELY NO BEARING ON
ADULT THEY SEE EVERY DAY, ONE
THEIR GRADES.
WHO HAS ABSOLUTELY NO BEARING ON
ACCORDING TO PLAYWORKS MARC
THEIR GRADES.
MCALEAVEY, IT CERTAINLY DOESN'T
ACCORDING TO PLAYWORKS MARC
HURT THAT COACH TOM'S PRIMARY
MCALEAVEY, IT CERTAINLY DOESN'T
JOB IS TO HELP THE CHILDREN HAVE
HURT THAT COACH TOM'S PRIMARY
FUN:
JOB IS TO HELP THE CHILDREN HAVE
>> IT MAKES SCHOOL KIND OF
FUN:
DELICIOUS AND SO WHEN KIDS WAKE
>> IT MAKES SCHOOL KIND OF
UP AND THEY KNOW THEY ARE GOING
DELICIOUS AND SO WHEN KIDS WAKE
TO PLAY THAT DAY AND THEY'VE HAD
UP AND THEY KNOW THEY ARE GOING
THIS POSITIVE EXPERIENCE OR
TO PLAY THAT DAY AND THEY'VE HAD
MULTIPLE POSITIVE EXPERIENCES
THIS POSITIVE EXPERIENCE OR
DAILY POSITIVE EXPERIENCES AT
MULTIPLE POSITIVE EXPERIENCES
SCHOOL THEY WANT TO GO THERE.
DAILY POSITIVE EXPERIENCES AT
>> Reporter: PLAYWORKS OPERATES
SCHOOL THEY WANT TO GO THERE.
IN 300 SCHOOLS AROUND THE
>> Reporter: PLAYWORKS OPERATES
COUNTRY, AND SERVES ABOUT 3,000
IN 300 SCHOOLS AROUND THE
CHILDREN IN INDIANA ALONE.
COUNTRY, AND SERVES ABOUT 3,000
>> Woodruff: LEARN MORE ABOUT
CHILDREN IN INDIANA ALONE.
THE LINK BETWEEN PHYSICAL
>> Woodruff: LEARN MORE ABOUT
ACTIVITY AND ACADEMIC
THE LINK BETWEEN PHYSICAL
PERFORMANCE ON OUR WEBSITE.
ACTIVITY AND ACADEMIC
THERE WE ALSO POSTED SOME OF
PERFORMANCE ON OUR WEBSITE.
COACH TOM'S FAVORITE RECESS
THERE WE ALSO POSTED SOME OF
ACTIVITIES PLUS A LESSON PLAN
COACH TOM'S FAVORITE RECESS
FOR TEACHERS ON PHYSICAL
ACTIVITIES PLUS A LESSON PLAN
ACTIVITY AND THE BRAIN.
FOR TEACHERS ON PHYSICAL
>> Woodruff: "AMERICAN GRADUATE"
ACTIVITY AND THE BRAIN.
IS A PUBLIC MEDIA INITIATIVE
>> Woodruff: "AMERICAN GRADUATE"
FUNDED BY THE CORPORATION FOR
IS A PUBLIC MEDIA INITIATIVE
PUBLIC BROADCASTING.
>> Ifill: NOW WE TURN TO
AFGHANISTAN, AND ANOTHER
POTENTIAL SNAG AS THE U.S.
STRUGGLES TO REACH A SECURITY
DEAL WITH PRESIDENT HAMID
KARZAI.
>> Ifill: PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
SEASON HAS BEGUN IN EARNEST IN
KABUL, WITH BANNERS AND
BILLBOARDS TOUTING CANDIDATES
FOR THE APRIL FIFTH ELECTION.
ONE ISSUE LOOMS ESPECIALLY LARGE
OVER IT ALL.
WHETHER TO SIGN A  SECURITY
AGREEMENT ALLOWING SOME U.S. AND
N.A.T.O. TROOPS TO REMAIN BEYOND
THE END OF THIS YEAR, MAINLY IN
A TRAINING CAPACITY.
PRESIDENT HAMID KARZAI HAS
BALKED AT SIGNING THE AGREEMENT,
INSISTING HE WILL LEAVE IT TO
HIS SUCCESSOR.
>> ( translated ): AFGHANISTAN
WILL NEVER SIGN THE SECURITY
AGREEMENT UNPR
NO PRESSURE, NO THREAT, NO
PSYCHOLOGICAL OPERATION AGAINST
OUR PEOPLE CAN FORCE US TO SIGN
THE SECURITY AGREEMENT.
IF THEY WANT TO LEAVE, THEY
SHOULD LEAVE TODAY.
>> Ifill: NOW, "THE NEW YORK
TIMES" REPORTS, AND A KARZAI
SPOKESMACONFN IRMS, THE AFGHAN
PRESIDENT HAS BEGUN SECRET PEACE
TALKS WITH THE TALIBAN.
THE OKESSPMAN SAYS THE TWO SIDES
MET IN DUBAI THREE WEEKS AGO.
AND HE NOTES RELATIONS WITH THE
TALIBAN HAVE IMPROVED SINCE
KARZAI REFUSED TO SIGN THE
SECURITY PACT.
IN WASHINGTON, WHITE HOUSE PRESS
SECRETARY JAY CARNEY DID NOT
ADDRESS THE REPORT OF PEACE
TALKS.
INSTEAD, HE WARNED AGAIN, TIME
IS RUNNING SHORT.
>> THIS AGREEMENT WAS NEGOTIATED
AFTER A PROLONGED PROCESS, A
GOOD FAITH PROCESS, AND ENDORSED
BY THE AFGHAN ELDERS REPRESENTED
BY THE LOYA JIRGA AND IT OUGHT
TO BE SIGNED.
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE,
PRESIDENT OBAMA MET THIS
AFTERNOON WITH HIS TOP MILITARY
COMMANDERS, TO DISCUSS THE
FUTURE OF THE U.S. MISSION IN
AFGHANISTAN.
>> Ifill: JOINING ME NOW IS ONE
OF THE REPORTERS WHO WROTE THE
NEW YORK TIMES STORY- MATTHEW
ROSENBERG.
WHY IS HAMID KARZAI MEETING WITH
THE TALIBAN?
>> HE WANTS TO MAKE PEACE.
I THINK AMERICANS WANT TO MAKE
PEACE, TOO.
EVERYBODY DOES.
IF THEY COULD CREATE A PEACE
DEAL WITH THE TALIBAN EVERYBODY
WOULD BE OVERJOYED ABOUT THIS.
THE QUESTION IS HOW AND ARE THE
TALIBAN REALLY INTERESTED?
>> Ifill: WHEN YOU SAY "PEACE,"
WHAT WE WERE HEARD ALL ALONG IS
THAT THIS SECURITY AGREEMENT
WHICH WE'VE BEEN TRYING TO GET
THEM TO SIGN, THAT THAT'S THE
INGREDIENT FOR PEACE.
THIS S THIS A SEPARATE SIDE DEAL
THAT HE'S TRYING TO CUT?
>> I THINK THAT'S WHAT HE
THOUGHT IT WAS.
HE THOUGHT THERE WAS THIS
CONTACT OR HE HAD THIS
OPPORTUNITY AND THEN HE WOULD
KIND OF PUSH OFF THE AMERICANS.
I THINK THE AMERICAN TELLING OF
THIS AND TO A LOT OF OTHER
AFGHANS AS WELL THEY WOULD SAY,
WELL, WHAT'S THE TALIBAN'S
INCENTIVE?
IF THE AMERICANS GET UP AND
LEAVE THEY TAKE THEIR TROOPS AND
MONEY, WHY WOULD THEY MAKE PEACE
NOW?
>> Ifill: I GUESS THAT'S MY
QUESTION.
WHAT DOES PEACE LOOK LIKE WITH
THE TALIBAN?
>> IT'S AN INCREDIBLY GOOD
QUESTION.
I THINK AMERICANS AND THE AFGHAN
GOVERNMENT ALSO -- THEY NEED TO
ACCEPT THE AFGHAN GOVERNMENT,
ACCEPT THE CONSTITUTION, ACCEPT
THE RIGHTS THAT WERE GRANTED TO
PEOPLE THAT DIDN'T HAVE THEM
UNDER THE TALIBAN.
BUT ACCEPTING THE CONSTITUTION
CAN BE K MEAN A LOT OF THINGS.
THAT CAN BE AMENDED OR CHANGED
BUT IT WON'T LOOK LIKE A
SEPARATE TALIBAN STATE IN THE
COUNTRY.
>> Ifill: SO THE SECRET MEETINGS
HE HAS BEEN CONDUCTING, IS THAT
WHY HE'S BEEN SO HESITANT TOE
SIGN THE SECURITY AGREEMENT WITH
THE U.S. AND ITS ALLIES?
>> IT LOOKS LIKE ONE OF THE MAIN
FACTORS THERE, HE THOUGHT HE HAD
SOMETHING ELSE GOING ON SO WHAT
DOES HE NEED THE U.S.?
THE PROBLEM IS THAT THE
AMERICANS WOULD BE MORE THAN
HAPPY IF HE COULD CUT HIS OWN
DEAL AND MAKE PEACE.
EVERYBODY WOULD BE PLEASED,
EVERYBODY COULD GO HOME.
IT'S THE BEHAVIOR ENGENDERED BY
HIS IDEA, HE THOUGHT THAT HE HAD
PEACE TALKS GOING BETWEEN GOING
AFTER US WITH FAKE EVIDENCE AND
-- OF WAR CRIMES, TRIES TO
RELEASE MORE TALIBAN FROM
PRISON.
A LOT OF KIND OF DEEPER ISSUES
IN THAT RELATIONSHIP CAME OUT
THAT I THINK EVERYBODY THOUGHT
WAS UNHELPFUL.
>> Ifill: WHO MADE THE FIRST
OLIVE BRANCH, AS IT WERE?
>> IT'S HARD TO SAY.
MOST SOURCES SAID IT CAME FROM
THE TALIBAN BUT ALSO COMING FROM
THE TALIBAN IS A HARD THING TO
JUDGE.
>> Ifill: WHO IS THAT?
>> THAT'S ALWAYS BEEN THE ISSUE
WHICH IS HOW DO YOU FIND THE
PERSON CONNECTED TO MULLAH OMAR?
WE DON'T KNOW WHO HE IS.
THE AMERICANS AND GERMANS HAVE
ONE CHANNEL THAT FELL APART.
PARTLY BECAUSE OF KARZAI'S
OBJECTIONS BACK IN I GUESS IT
WAS JUNE AND NOW IT'S LIKE, YOU
KNOW, HOW SERIOUS WAS THIS?
WERE THEY JUST TRYING TO STRING
HIM ALONG?
IT LOOKS THAT WAY BECAUSE IT'S
GONE NOWHERE.
>> Ifill: WHAT WOULD HE WANT
FROM THEM JUST AN AGREEMENT TO
-- WHAT?
>> I THINK HE WANTS -- HE HAS
THIS GRAND IDEA THAT THEY'RE
BROTHERS, THEY'RE AFGHANS LIKE
HIM AND THEY CAN BROUGHT BACK
TOGETHER AND BE BROUGHT IN
PEACEFULLY.
IT SOMETIMES CAN BE A LITTLE --
IT CAN COME ACROSS AS SOMETIMES
NAIVE.
>> Ifill: THIS ISN'T THE FIRST
TIME.
MAYBE THIS IS NAIVE AS WELL.
BUT THIS ISN'T THE FIRST TIME
THERE HAVE BEEN EFFORTS TO REACH
OUT TO THE TALIBAN.
AMERICAN DIPLOMATS TRIED TO DO
THE SAME THING, HAVEN'T THEY?
>> THEY HAVE.
AND, YOU KNOW, THEY CAME VERY
CLOSE.
I MEAN, THEY'VE BEEN IN TOUCH
WITH PEOPLE WHO THEY BELIEVED
AND HAD EVIDENCE WERE DOING THIS
WITH THE BLESSING OF MULLAH
OMAR.
THEY JUST HAVEN'T GONE ANYWHERE.
THE TALIBAN HAVE NOT SEEMED
WILLING TO TALK PEACE.
THEY HAVEN'T SEEN IN THE THEIR
INTEREST AT THIS POINT.
>> Ifill: RIGHT NOW THERE WAS AN
EFFORT MADE BY HIM AS A SIDE
DEAL TO REACH OUT TO THE
TALIBAN.
THERE'S THE EFFORT TO GET THEM
TO SIGN THE SECURITY AGREEMENT
IN ADVANCE OF THE ELECTION WHICH
IS IS LOOKING LESS AND LESS
LIKELY.
IS THERE A RENEWED PRESSURE IN
THE U.S. FROM SOMEONE ELSE TO
TRY TO GET THAT BACK ON TRACK?
>> I THINK THERE IS.
THE PRESSURE FROM THE U.S. HAS
BEEN PRETTY ENORMOUS BUT IT'S
ALSO EVERY WEEK THERE SEEMS TO
BE A NEW DEADLINE.
LIKE THIS IS THE WEEK IT THESE
GET DONE OR THIS IS THE MONTH
AND THE DEADLINE SLIPS.
SO I THINK IN MOST OF THE AFGHAN
GOVERNMENT THEY SEE THE U.S.
SAYING "SIGN NOW OR LOSE IT"
THEN THEY DON'T SIGN NOW AND
DON'T LOSE IT.
>> Ifill: WE JUST SAW CAR SAY CY
SAY "WELL, TAKE IT AWAY IF
YOU'RE GOING TO TAKE THE DEAL
AWAY."
BUT THAT HASN'T HAPPENED.
WHAT ARE THE OPTIONS AVAILABLE
OR ON THE TABLE FOR THE U.S. TO
ACT IN ALL OF THIS IN ORDER TO
GET KARZAI OFF THE DIME?
>> IT'S A TOUGH SPOT FOR THE
U.S. BECAUSE I THINK THEY REALLY
DON'T WANT TO JUST WALK AWAY.
YOU DON'T WANT A REPEAT OF
WHAT'S HAPPENING IN IRAQ RIGHT
NOW.
ON THE OTHER HAND, YOU KNOW, YOU
NEED TO HAVE A PARTNER THERE AND
RIGHT NOW THEY DON'T FEEL THEY
DO HAVE A PARTNER.
>> Ifill: IS THE ANTITRUST A
POSITION TO WITHHOLD BILLIONS OF
DOLLARS OF AID ON THE TABLE?
IS THAT SOMETHING THAT PERHAPS
CONGRESS IS PRESSURING U.S.
DIPLOMATS TO DO?
>> THERE'S DEFINITELY PRESSURE
IN CONGRESS WHEN IT COMES TO THE
ECONOMIC AID.
THE MILITARY AID IS A LITTLE
MORE SACROSANCT.
BUT AFGHANISTAN IS ENTIRELY
DEPENDENT ON FOREIGN AID.
THIS ISN'T IRAQ WHERE MONEY JUST
COMES OUT OF THE GROUND.
THEY HAVE NO MONEY.
IF WE TAKE AWAY THE AID, THAT
COUNTRY WILL COLLAPSE.
THERE'S NO WAY -- IT CANNOT
SUPPORT ITSELF.
>> Woodruff: SO THERE ARE NOT A
LOT OF OPTIONS RIGHT NOW.
>> NOT MANY.
>> Ifill: AND EVERYBODY'S
WAITING FOR THE ELECTION.
>> PRETTY MUCH.
THE.
>> Ifi:ll MATTHEW ROSENBERG OF
THE "NEW YORK TIMES."
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
ANOTHER LOOK AT THE OLYMPIC
GAMES WHICH START LATER THIS
WEEK IN SOCHI, AND THE BLOW-BACK
SURROUNDING A CONTROVERSIAL
RUSSIAN LAW.
JEFF IS BACK WITH THAT STORY.
>> Brown: THE FANFARE AT A
CEREMONY FOR THE INTERNATIONAL
OLYMPIC COMMITTEE IN SOCHI HAD
SCARCELY FADED TODAY
WHEN SHARP WORDS CAME FROM
THOMAS BACH, I.O.C. PRESIDENT.
>> ( translated ): THAT SPORTS
CAN ONLY CONTRIBUTE TO
DEVELOPMENT AND PEACE IF IT'S
NOT USED AS A STAGE FOR
POLITICAL DISSENT OR FOR TRYING
TO SCORE POINTS IN INTERNAL OR
EXTERNAL POLITICAL CONTESTS.
HAVE THE COURAGE TO ADDRESS YOUR
DISAGREEMENTS IN A PEACEFUL,
DIRECT POLITICAL DIALOGUE AND
NOT ON THE BACKS OF THE
ATHLETES.
>> Brown: IT WAS A CLEAR SHOT AT
NATIONAL LEADERS WHO'VE SHUNNED
THE GAMES OVER RUSSIA'S BAN ON
SO-CALLED GAY PROPAGANDA
>> IN THE EXTREME, WE HAD TO SEE
A FEW POLITICIANS WHOSE
CONTRIBUTION TO THE FIGHT FOR A
GOOD CAUSE CONSISTED OF PUBLICLY
DECLINING INVITATIONS THEY HAD
NOT EVEN RECEIVED.
>> Brown: BACH DID NOT NAME
NAMES, BUT PRESIDENT OBAMA IS
AMONG THOSE STAYING AWAY.
INSTEAD, HE'S SENDING
THREE OPENLY GAY ATHLETES,
TENNIS STAR BILLY JEAN KING,
FIGURE SKATER BRIAN BOITANO, AND
HOCKEY PLAYER CAITLIN CAHOW.
THE FUROR BEGAN LAST JUNE, WHEN
RUSSIAN LAWMAKERS ADOPTED A LAW
THEY SAID WAS ESSENTIAL TO
PROTECT THE YOUNG.
>> ( translated ): IT OUTLAWS
THE SPREADING OF INFORMATION
AIMED AT FORMING NON-TRADITIONAL
SEXUAL ATTITUDES AMONG CHILDREN,
ATTRACTIVENESS OF NON-
TRADITIONAL SEXUAL RELATNS, IOA
DISTORTED PERCEPTION OF SOCIAL
EQUALITY BETWEEN TRADITIONAL AND
NON-TRADITIONAL SEXUAL
RELATIONS.
>> Brown: THE STATUTE SPARKED
OUTRAGE AROUND THE WORLD.
IN PARIS, DEMONSTRATORS FORMED
OLYMPIC RINGS, HOLDING IMAGES OF
ALLEGED HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES IN
RUSSIA.
AND IN SWEDEN, 2,000 PEOPLE
GATHERED TO SING RUSSIA'S
NATIONAL ANTHEM UNDER RAINBOW
FLAGS.
THE VIDEO WENT VIRAL ON THE
INTERNET.
IN RESPONSE, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN HAS INSISTED NO
ATHLETE AT THE GAMES WILL BE
MISTREATED.
>> ( translated ): AND OF
COURSE, THE OLYMPIC GAMES WILL
BE HELD IN FULL COMPLIANCE WITH
THE OLYMPIC CHARTER, WITHOUT ANY
DISCRIMINATION ON ANY BASIS.
>> Brown: BUT PUTIN ALSO RAISED
HACKLES AGAIN IN MID-JANUARY
WHEN HE SAID THIS.
>> WE DON'T HOLD ANYONE
RESPONSIBLE FOR THOSE RELATIONS,
>> Reporter: I.O.C. PRESIDENT
BACH SAID TODAY THAT PUTIN HAS
AGAIN PROMISED TO OBSERVE
OLYMPIC VALUES DURING THE GAMES
THEY OFFICIALLY BEGIN ON FRIDAY.
>> Brown: WE PICK UP ON ALL THIS
WITH ANDRANIK MIGRANYAN,
DIRECTOR OF THE INSTITUTE FOR
DEMOCRACY AND COOPERATION, A
NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATION
THAT HAS CLOSE TIES TO RUSSIA'S
LEADERSHIP.
AND BRIAN MOULTON IS THE LEGAL
DIRECTOR OF THE HUMAN RIGHTS
CAMPAIGN, AN ORGANIZATION
WORKING TO ACHIEVE EQUALITY FOR
LESBIAN, GAY, BISEXUAL AND
TRANSGENDER AMERICANS.
AND BRIAN MOULTON, LET ME START
WITH YOU.
HOW SERIOUS A PROBLEM DO YOU SEE
RUSSIA FOR GAYS AND LESBIANS?
>> IT'S A VERY SERIOUS PROBLEM.
WE BOTH HAVE THE LAW THAT WAS
PASSED LAST FALL THAT REALLY
RESTRICTS THE ABILITY OF
L.G.B.T. PEOPLE TO BE PUBLIC
ABOUT WHO THEY ARE, TO SPEAK OUT
IN FAVOR OF EQUALITY AT THE RISK
OF FINES.
AND THEN THERE'S JUST A CULTURE,
A GROWING CULTURE OF HARASSMENT
AND VIOLENCE AGAINST L.G.B.T.
PEOPLE THAT'S BEEN GENERATED AND
EXACERBATED BY THIS LAW.
>> Brown: ANDRANIK MIGRANYAN,
HOW DO YOU SEE THE SITUATION?
WHAT'S THE IMPETUS, FOR EXAMPLE,
BEHIND THIS NEW LAW?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT
IN WESTERN MEDIA THIS PROBLEM
CONCERNING L.G.B.T.Q. COMMUNITY
IS GROSSLY EXAGGERATED.
I DON'T THINK WE HAVE A SERIOUS
PROBLEM CONCERNING THIS ISSUE
BUT YOU KNOW WHAT IS THE PROBLEM
AT THIS MOMENT, I THINK THAT
RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT AND
AUTHORITIES, THEY ARE TRYING TO
CONSOLIDATE RUSSIAN STATE AND
RUSSIAN SOCIETY AROUND SOME
VALUES OF COLLAPSE OF THE SOVIET
UNION AND COMMUNIST IDEOLOGY AND
BECAUSE UNFORTUNATELY LIBERALS
WERE DISCREDITED AS A RESULT OF
THAT WILD CAPITAL GRABBING BY
OLIGARCHS OF STATE PROPERTY AND
CREATING THE POVERTY IN THE
SOCIETY.
NOW RUSSIAN SOCIETY IS
CONSOLIDATING AROUND
CONSERVATIVE AND TRADITIONAL
VALUES WHICH, YOU KNOW, INCLUDES
RESPECT TO FAMILY VALUES, TO THE
CHURCH, TO STATE, VALUING VERY
HIGH THE PATRIARCHY AND
CONSERVATIVE VALUES.
AND ON TOP OF THAT WE HAVE
ANOTHER PROBLEM.
RUSSIA WAS DECLINING POPULATION
DEMOGRAPHIC PROBLEMS AND ON TOP
OF THAT THE STATE AUTHORITIES
THEY WANT TO ENCOURAGE THE
BIRTHRATE AND THAT'S WHY THEY
ARE PUSHING FOR THE PROBLEM OF
FAMILY VALUES AND STRENGTHENING
THE FAMILY TIES.
>> Brown: BRIAN MOULTON, WHAT DO
YOU RESPOND TO THAT?
>> I THINK IT'S VERY UNFORTUNATE
THAT OUR RESPONSE TO ADOPTING
STRONGER VALUES IN THE COUNTRY
MEANS ADOPTING VALUES OF
DISCRIMINATION AGAINST A GROUP
OF PEOPLE IN THAT COUNTRY.
IT'S SAD TO SEE THE ARGUMENTS
THAT WE HAVE HEARD IN THE UNITED
STATES FOR MANY YEARS ABOUT
L.G.B.T. EQUALITY THAT IT'S
HARMFUL TO FAMILIES IGNORING THE
FACT THAT THESE ARE PEOPLE WHO
HAVE THEIR OWN FAMILIES OR ARE
RAISING CHILDREN IN MANY
INSTANCES, EXPORTED AND EVEN
USED BY AMERICAN ADVOCATES IN
THE COUNTRY TO HURT OUR
COMMUNITY ABROAD.
>> Brown: HAVE YOU SEEN IT
TRANSLATE INTO DIRECTION ACTIONS
AND IS IT ALSO WHAT'S COMING
WITH THE ATHLETES?
DO YOU FEAR THAT SOMETHING MIGHT
-- I DON'T KNOW, DISCRIMINATION
AGAINST PARTICULAR ATHLETES?
>> WELL, WE HAVE CERTAINLY AND
SEEN THE LAW APPLIED AND WE'VE
SEEN ADVOCATES FINED.
WE JUST SAW AT THE END OF LAST
MONTH A NEWSPAPER EDITOR FINED
FOR RUNNING AN ARTICLE ABOUT A
GAY MAN WHO LOST HIS JOB AS A
TEACHER BECAUSE OF HIS SEXUAL
ORIENTATION.
SO THE LAW IS BEING USED TO
RESTRICT THE ABILITY OF
INDIVIDUALS WHO EXPRESS POSITIVE
MESSAGES ABOUT L.G.B.T. PEOPLE.
CERTAINLY WE WORRY THAT ATHLETES
OPENLY L.G.B.T. ATHLETES WHO GO
TO THE GAMES AND WANT TO EXPRESS
THEIR SUPPORT FOR THE L.G.B.T.Q.
COMMUNITY IN RUSSIA MAY BE IN
DANGER.
YOU HEARD THE MIXED MESSAGES
THAT PUTIN AND OTHER OFFICIALS
IN RUSSIA HAVE GIVEN.
I'M HOPING PEOPLE AREN'T
PROSECUTED DURING THE GAMES BUT
WHAT HAPPENS TO L.G.B.T. PEOPLE
WHEN THE GAMES ARE OVER.
>> Pelley: MR. MIGRANYAN, DO YOU
HEAR MIXED MESSAGES IN WHAT WE
HEARD FROM VAPTD VLADIMIR PUTIN
AND OTHER OFFICIALS?
>> NO, I HAVEN'T SEEN AND HEARD
ANY MIXED MESSAGES.
IS PROBLEM IS THAT TODAY "NEW
YORK TIMES" MENTIONED THAT 75
COUNTRIES IN THE WORLD THEY
CRIMINALIZED SAME-SEX RELATIONS.
RUSSIA REPEALED THAT LAW IN 1994
AND WE HAD THESE VERY SEVERE
LAWS UNDER SOVIET RULE.
AND THAT'S WHY WE DON'T HAVE ANY
DISCRIMINATION.
THE OTHER PROBLEM IS THAT WHICH
WE WOULD REALLY LIKE TO MAKE
CLEAR FOR EVERYBODY IN THE WORLD
THIS IS THE LAW AGAINST
PROPAGANDA IN PRESENCE OF KIDS.
THAT'S THE ONLY PROBLEM.
OTHERWISE, YOU KNOW, WE HAVE THE
POSITION THAT WE'RE LIVING ALONE
LEAVE US ALONE.
WE PROTECT AND WE RESPECT THE
MINORITY RULES.
RESPECT THE MAJORITY RIGHTS AND
MAJORITY WAY OF LIFE.
AND THIS IS THE REALITY.
THAT'S WHY I THINK THAT, AGAIN,
THERE IS UNFORTUNATELY A
SITUATION WHEN SOME MINORITIES
ARE BECOMING VERY ACTIVE AND IN
SOME CASES UNFORTUNATELY
AGGRESSIVE.
THEY WOULD LIKE TO IMPOSE THEIR
WAY OF LIFE AND TO IMPOSE ON
MAJORITY THEIR PERCEPTION HOW
PEOPLE MUST LIVE AND ACT.
AND WE NEED TO HAVE TOLERANCE ON
BOTH SIDES.
>> Brown: I JUST WANT TO ASK YOU
BEFORE WE HAVE TO END HERE ABOUT
THE RESPONSE.
STARTING WITH YOU, BRIAN
MOULTON.
ARE YOU SATISFIED WITH PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S ACTION AND PEOPLE HE
SENT.
ARE YOU SATISFIED WITH THE
I.O.C.'S RESPONSE AND COMPANIES?
>> WELL, WE'RE CERTAINLY VERY
PLEASED THAT THE PRESIDENT HAS
TAKEN THE OPPORTUNITY TO SEND
OPENLY L.G.B.T. ATHLETES AS PART
OF THE DELEGATION AND TO SPEAK
OUT AGAINST THE RUSSIAN LAW AND
OUR OWN STATE DEPARTMENT THAT
HAS DONE A LOT TO MAKE SURE THAT
PEOPLE TRAVELING TO RUSSIA FOR
THE GAMES ARE AWARE OF THE
ISSUES FACING L.G.B.T. PEOPLE.
CERTAINLY WE WOULD LIKE TO SEE
THE INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC
COMMITTEE DO MORE.
WE WOULD LIKE TO SEE THE
CORPORATE SPONSORS OF THE
OLYMPICS SPEAK OUT AGAINST THE
LAW.
THERE'S MUCH MORE THAT NEEDS TO
BE DONE TO RAISE AWARENESS.
>> Brown: MR. MIGRANYAN, WE HAVE
ABOUT 30 SECONDS BECAUSE WE'RE
NEAR THE END OF THE PROGRAM.
WHAT'S BEEN THE RESPONSE TO THE
OUTSIDE PRESSURE IN RUSSIA?
WHAT DO YOU MAKE OF THAT?
>> I DON'T THINK IN RUSSIA THIS
IS A REAL PROBLEM AND I'M VERY
GLAD THAT BILLIE JEAN KING WAS
IN THE AMERICAN DELEGATION.
WHEN I WAS A STUDENT I WAS VERY
HAPPY, A TENNIS FAN, TO SEE HER
IN SOVIET UNION IN MOSCOW AND
THAT TIME SOVIET UNION HAD VERY
STRICT LAWS AGAINST L.G.B.T.
COMMUNITY BUT SHE CAME TO SOVIET
UNION, SHE DIDN'T HAVE ANY
PROBLEM AND I HOPE NOW SHE WILL
ENJOYER WILL STAY IN SOCHI AND I
THINK EVERYBODY WILL BE WELCOME
THERE INDEPENDENTLY REGARDLESS
OF THEIR SEXUAL ORIENTATION
BECAUSE SOCHI IS THE PLACE AND
THE OLYMPICS IS THE PLACE NOT TO
SHOW THEIR SEXUAL ORIENTATION
NOW SHOW GOOD RESULTS IN SPORTS.
>> Brown: ANDRANIK MIGRANYAN AND
BRIAN MOUTONL, THANK YOU BOTH
VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE
PROJECTED THAT BY 2021 AS MANY
AS 2.3 MILLION WORKERS WILL WORK
LESS, OR NOT AT ALL, AS THEY
GAIN HEALTH INSURANCE.
OVERSEAS MARKETS HAD ANOTHER
ROUGH DAY, BUT WALL STREET
MANAGED TO MAKE UP A BIT OF LOST
GROUND.
THE DOW INDUSTRIALS GAINED 72
POINTS.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, LIKE IT OR
NOT, FACEBOOK CELEBRATES IT'S
TEN-YEAR ANNIVERSARY TODAY.
SO WE WANT TO HEAR FROM YOU:
WHICH INNOVATIONS OF THE PAST
DECADE, FROM THE WALL TO THE
NEWSFEED, ARE YOUR FAVORITES?
TAKE OUR INTERACTIVE POLL, AND
THEN SHARE IT WITH YOUR FRIENDS.
THAT'S ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, WE RETURN TO THE
SOCHI OLYMPICS, THIS TIME WITH A
PREVIEW OF WHAT TO EXPECT AT THE
ACTUAL GAMES.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
AND I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.